Release 3.3.0 (#875)
open-formulieren/open-forms-sdk: CHANGELOG.rst

SDK Changelog
=============

3.3.0 (2025-09-30)
==================

Feature release.

.. note:: this release adds the ability to opt-in to the new experimental form renderer.
   the feature can be enabled on a per-form basis through the admin interface.

New features
------------

* [#5191] Added a 'use user location' control to map component.
* [#5191] Changed the Leaflet-Draw "delete" button behavior and removed the "Delete" menu.

> * [#5575] implemented wms layers in the map component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#5575] The map component can now display WMS overlays.
```

> * [#5133] updated the open-formulieren formio-renderer and replaced
>   several components:
>   - select field for appointments.
>   - numberfield.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#5133] There is now **experimental** support for our own formio renderer. Some low-level components
  have been replaced with their equivalent from our own renderer:
  
    - The select fields in the appointment steps.
    - The number field in the appointment steps.

```
note the blank lines for proper RST formatting

* Switched from local storage to session storage for form submissions.

> * [#825] Added children component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#825] Added the ``children`` family members component type.
```

Bugfixes
--------

> * [#871] Added missing translations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
not relevant for the changelog

> * [#869] Fixed children component's styling for mobile devices.

Reviewer: while it's a commit that happened, it's basically part of the feature entry that says we added support for children components

Author: I removed the line from the entries.

> * [#5378] updated map drawing behaviour when only map interaction
>   is allowed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#5378] Fixed not having to select an interaction choice on the map component if only one option
  is available.
```
bugfix entries pretty much always must start with `Fixed ...`

> * fixed invalid dates in test stories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fixed invalid dates in test stories.
```
didn't affect users of the SDK, so this should be moved to "Project maintenance"

> * added the missing 'selected' poperty from the manually added children.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
implied in the children component feature

* [#850] Fixed missing exports for our formio module and template library.

> * Fixed the behaviour of ``selected`` property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
also about the children component I believe, so let's leave that out

Project maintenance
-------------------

> * Added a reusable github actions for i18n checks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added reusable github actions for i18n checks.
```

* Pinned the minor NodeJS version.

> * [#445] converted another chunk of code to typescript.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#445] Converted another chunk of code to typescript.
```
we treat changelog entries as sentences, meaning they have proper punctuation - start with a capital letter and and with a period.

* Bumped dependencies to their latest (security) releases.
* Added Storybook stories for ``FormStart``.
* Removed obsoleted and unused SDK embed example.

> * Fixed missing underlines causing CI builds to fail

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fixed missing underlines causing CI builds to fail.
```

* [#4879] Removed some dead code.

> * [#445] Converted another chunk of code to Typescript.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
listed twice

SDK Changelog
=============

3.3.0 (2025-09-?)
==================

Feature release.

.. note:: This release adds the ability to opt-in to the new experimental form renderer.
   The feature can be enabled on a per-form basis through the admin interface.

New features
------------

* [#5191] Improved the interactions on the map component:

  - Using the current location (via the browser location permission) is now an explicit user action.

>   - Removing drawn shapes/geometry on the map now requires only a single click instead of multiple.

Reviewer: I am wrong, it should be two spaces, I'll update the config file

* [#5191] Changed the Leaflet-Draw "delete" button behavior and removed the "Delete" menu.
* [#5575] The map component can now display WMS overlays.
* [#5133] There is now **experimental** support for our own formio renderer. Some low-level components
  have been replaced with their equivalent from our own renderer:

>   - The select fields in the appointment steps.
>   - The number field in the appointment steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - The select fields in the appointment steps.
    - The number field in the appointment steps.
```
